README.md, before:

# DMControl Generalization Benchmark

**[07/01/2021] Added SVEA, DrQ, Distracting Control Suite, and reduced memory consumption by 5x**


Benchmark for generalization in continuous control from pixels, based on [DMControl](https://github.com/deepmind/dm_control).

Also contains official implementations of

**Stabilizing Deep Q-Learning with ConvNets and Vision Transformers under Data Augmentation** (SVEA)<br/>
[Nicklas Hansen](https://nicklashansen.github.io), [Hao Su](https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~haosu), [Xiaolong Wang](https://xiaolonw.github.io)

[[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.00644) [[Webpage]](https://nicklashansen.github.io/SVEA)

and

**Generalization in Reinforcement Learning by Soft Data Augmentation** (SODA)<br/>
[Nicklas Hansen](https://nicklashansen.github.io), [Xiaolong Wang](https://xiaolonw.github.io)

[[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.13389) [[Webpage]](https://nicklashansen.github.io/SODA)


See [this repository](https://github.com/nicklashansen/svea-vit) for SVEA implemented using Vision Transformers.


## Test environments

The DMControl Generalization Benchmark provides two distinct benchmarks for visual generalization, *random colors* and *video backgrounds*:

![environment samples](figures/environments.png)

Both benchmarks are offered in *easy* and *hard* variants. Samples are shown below.

**color_easy**<br/>
![color_easy](figures/color_easy.png)

**color_hard**<br/>
![color_hard](figures/color_hard.png)

**video_easy**<br/>
![video_easy](figures/video_easy.png)

**video_hard**<br/>
![video_hard](figures/video_hard.png)

This codebase also integrates a set of challenging test environments from the [Distracting Control Suite](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.02722) (DistractingCS). Our implementation of DistractingCS includes environments of 8 gradually increasing randomization intensities. Note that our implementation of DistractingCS is *not* equivalent to the original DistractingCS benchmark -- they differ in important ways: (1) we evaluate at a different set of intensities (and number of videos) that more closely matches performance of current algorithms; (2) we reduce randomization update frequency by a factor of 2 to account for frame skip (action repeat); (3) all Tensorflow dependencies have been replaced by PyTorch. By default, algorithms are trained for 500k frames and are continuously evaluated in both training and test environments. Environment randomization is seeded to promote reproducibility.


## Algorithms

This repository contains implementations of the following algorithms in a unified framework:

- [SVEA (Hansen et al., 2021)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.00644)
- [SODA (Hansen and Wang, 2021)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.13389)
- [PAD (Hansen et al., 2020)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.04309)
- [DrQ (Kostrikov et al., 2020)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.13649)
- [RAD (Laskin et al., 2020)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.14990)
- [CURL (Srinivas et al., 2020)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.04136)
- [SAC (Haarnoja et al., 2018)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.05905)

using standardized architectures and hyper-parameters, wherever applicable. If you want to add an algorithm, feel free to send a pull request.


## Citation
<a name="citation"></a>
If you find our work useful in your research, please consider citing our work as follows:

```
@article{hansen2021stabilizing,
  title={Stabilizing Deep Q-Learning with ConvNets and Vision Transformers under Data Augmentation},
  author={Nicklas Hansen and Hao Su and Xiaolong Wang},
  year={2021},
  eprint={2107.00644},
  archivePrefix={arXiv},
  primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

for the SVEA method, and

```
@inproceedings{hansen2021softda,
  title={Generalization in Reinforcement Learning by Soft Data Augmentation},
  author={Nicklas Hansen and Xiaolong Wang},
  booktitle={International Conference on Robotics and Automation},
  year={2021},
}
```

for the SODA method and the DMControl Generalization Benchmark.


## Setup
We assume that you have access to a GPU with CUDA >=9.2 support. All dependencies can then be installed with the following commands:

```
conda env create -f setup/conda.yaml
conda activate dmcgb
sh setup/install_envs.sh
```


## Datasets
Part of this repository relies on external datasets. SODA uses the [Places](http://places2.csail.mit.edu/download.html) dataset for data augmentation, which can be downloaded by running

```
wget http://data.csail.mit.edu/places/places365/places365standard_easyformat.tar
```

Distracting Control Suite uses the [DAVIS](https://davischallenge.org/davis2017/code.html) dataset for video backgrounds, which can be downloaded by running

```
wget https://data.vision.ee.ethz.ch/csergi/share/davis/DAVIS-2017-trainval-480p.zip
```

You should familiarize yourself with their terms before downloading. After downloading and extracting the data, add your dataset directory to the `datasets` list in `setup/config.cfg`.

The `video_easy` environment was proposed in [PAD](https://github.com/nicklashansen/policy-adaptation-during-deployment), and the `video_hard` environment uses a subset of the [RealEstate10K](https://google.github.io/realestate10k/) dataset for background rendering. All test environments (including video files) are included in this repository, namely in the `src/env/` directory.


## Training & Evaluation

The `scripts` directory contains training and evaluation bash scripts for all the included algorithms. Alternatively, you can call the python scripts directly, e.g. for training call

```
python3 src/train.py \
  --algorithm svea \
  --seed 0
```

to run SVEA on the default task, `walker_walk`. This should give you an output of the form:

```
Working directory: logs/walker_walk/svea/0
Evaluating: logs/walker_walk/svea/0
| eval | S: 0 | ER: 26.2285 | ERTEST: 25.3730
| train | E: 1 | S: 250 | D: 70.1 s | R: 0.0000 | ALOSS: 0.0000 | CLOSS: 0.0000 | AUXLOSS: 0.0000
```
where `ER` and `ERTEST` corresponds to the average return in the training and test environments, respectively. You can select the test environment used in evaluation with the `--eval_mode` argument, which accepts one of `(train, color_easy, color_hard, video_easy, video_hard, distracting_cs, none)`. Use `none` if you want to disable continual evaluation of generalization. Note that not all combinations of arguments have been tested. Feel free to open an issue or send a pull request if you encounter an issue or would like to add support for new features.


## Results

We provide test results for each of the SVEA, SODA, PAD, DrQ, RAD, and CURL methods. Results for `color_hard` and `video_easy` are shown below:

![soda table results](figures/results_table.png)

See [our paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.00644) for additional results.


## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank the numerous researchers and engineers involved in work of which this work is based on. This repository is a product of our work on [SVEA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.00644), [SODA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.13389) and [PAD](https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.04309). Our SAC implementation is based on [this repository](https://github.com/denisyarats/pytorch_sac_ae), the original DMControl is available [here](https://github.com/deepmind/dm_control), and the gym wrapper for it is available [here](https://github.com/denisyarats/dmc2gym). The [Distracting Control Suite](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.02722) environments were adapted from [this](https://github.com/google-research/google-research/tree/master/distracting_control) implementation. PAD, RAD, CURL, and DrQ baselines are based on their official implementations provided [here](https://github.com/nicklashansen/policy-adaptation-during-deployment), [here](https://github.com/MishaLaskin/rad), [here](https://github.com/MishaLaskin/curl), and [here](https://github.com/denisyarats/drq), respectively.

Commit message:

Add section to README.md about installing mujoco

README.md, after:

# DMControl Generalization Benchmark

**[07/01/2021] Added SVEA, DrQ, Distracting Control Suite, and reduced memory consumption by 5x**


Benchmark for generalization in continuous control from pixels, based on [DMControl](https://github.com/deepmind/dm_control).

Also contains official implementations of

**Stabilizing Deep Q-Learning with ConvNets and Vision Transformers under Data Augmentation** (SVEA)<br/>
[Nicklas Hansen](https://nicklashansen.github.io), [Hao Su](https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~haosu), [Xiaolong Wang](https://xiaolonw.github.io)

[[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.00644) [[Webpage]](https://nicklashansen.github.io/SVEA)

and

**Generalization in Reinforcement Learning by Soft Data Augmentation** (SODA)<br/>
[Nicklas Hansen](https://nicklashansen.github.io), [Xiaolong Wang](https://xiaolonw.github.io)

[[Paper]](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.13389) [[Webpage]](https://nicklashansen.github.io/SODA)


See [this repository](https://github.com/nicklashansen/svea-vit) for SVEA implemented using Vision Transformers.


## Test environments

The DMControl Generalization Benchmark provides two distinct benchmarks for visual generalization, *random colors* and *video backgrounds*:

![environment samples](figures/environments.png)

Both benchmarks are offered in *easy* and *hard* variants. Samples are shown below.

**color_easy**<br/>
![color_easy](figures/color_easy.png)

**color_hard**<br/>
![color_hard](figures/color_hard.png)

**video_easy**<br/>
![video_easy](figures/video_easy.png)

**video_hard**<br/>
![video_hard](figures/video_hard.png)

This codebase also integrates a set of challenging test environments from the [Distracting Control Suite](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.02722) (DistractingCS). Our implementation of DistractingCS includes environments of 8 gradually increasing randomization intensities. Note that our implementation of DistractingCS is *not* equivalent to the original DistractingCS benchmark -- they differ in important ways: (1) we evaluate at a different set of intensities (and number of videos) that more closely matches performance of current algorithms; (2) we reduce randomization update frequency by a factor of 2 to account for frame skip (action repeat); (3) all Tensorflow dependencies have been replaced by PyTorch. By default, algorithms are trained for 500k frames and are continuously evaluated in both training and test environments. Environment randomization is seeded to promote reproducibility.


## Algorithms

This repository contains implementations of the following algorithms in a unified framework:

- [SVEA (Hansen et al., 2021)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.00644)
- [SODA (Hansen and Wang, 2021)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.13389)
- [PAD (Hansen et al., 2020)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.04309)
- [DrQ (Kostrikov et al., 2020)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.13649)
- [RAD (Laskin et al., 2020)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.14990)
- [CURL (Srinivas et al., 2020)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.04136)
- [SAC (Haarnoja et al., 2018)](https://arxiv.org/abs/1812.05905)

using standardized architectures and hyper-parameters, wherever applicable. If you want to add an algorithm, feel free to send a pull request.


## Citation
<a name="citation"></a>
If you find our work useful in your research, please consider citing our work as follows:

```
@article{hansen2021stabilizing,
  title={Stabilizing Deep Q-Learning with ConvNets and Vision Transformers under Data Augmentation},
  author={Nicklas Hansen and Hao Su and Xiaolong Wang},
  year={2021},
  eprint={2107.00644},
  archivePrefix={arXiv},
  primaryClass={cs.LG}
}
```

for the SVEA method, and

```
@inproceedings{hansen2021softda,
  title={Generalization in Reinforcement Learning by Soft Data Augmentation},
  author={Nicklas Hansen and Xiaolong Wang},
  booktitle={International Conference on Robotics and Automation},
  year={2021},
}
```

for the SODA method and the DMControl Generalization Benchmark.


## Setup
First install mujoco dependency:
1. Download old version of [mujoco](https://www.roboti.us/download.html) and paste it in your home .mujoco folder
2. Download free mujoco [license](https://www.roboti.us/license.html) and paste it in your home .mujoco folder

Then, we assume that you have access to a GPU with CUDA >=9.2 support. All dependencies can then be installed with the following commands:

```
conda env create -f setup/conda.yaml
conda activate dmcgb
sh setup/install_envs.sh
```

## Datasets
Part of this repository relies on external datasets. SODA uses the [Places](http://places2.csail.mit.edu/download.html) dataset for data augmentation, which can be downloaded by running

```
wget http://data.csail.mit.edu/places/places365/places365standard_easyformat.tar
```

Distracting Control Suite uses the [DAVIS](https://davischallenge.org/davis2017/code.html) dataset for video backgrounds, which can be downloaded by running

```
wget https://data.vision.ee.ethz.ch/csergi/share/davis/DAVIS-2017-trainval-480p.zip
```

You should familiarize yourself with their terms before downloading. After downloading and extracting the data, add your dataset directory to the `datasets` list in `setup/config.cfg`.

The `video_easy` environment was proposed in [PAD](https://github.com/nicklashansen/policy-adaptation-during-deployment), and the `video_hard` environment uses a subset of the [RealEstate10K](https://google.github.io/realestate10k/) dataset for background rendering. All test environments (including video files) are included in this repository, namely in the `src/env/` directory.


## Training & Evaluation

The `scripts` directory contains training and evaluation bash scripts for all the included algorithms. Alternatively, you can call the python scripts directly, e.g. for training call

```
python3 src/train.py \
  --algorithm svea \
  --seed 0
```

to run SVEA on the default task, `walker_walk`. This should give you an output of the form:

```
Working directory: logs/walker_walk/svea/0
Evaluating: logs/walker_walk/svea/0
| eval | S: 0 | ER: 26.2285 | ERTEST: 25.3730
| train | E: 1 | S: 250 | D: 70.1 s | R: 0.0000 | ALOSS: 0.0000 | CLOSS: 0.0000 | AUXLOSS: 0.0000
```
where `ER` and `ERTEST` corresponds to the average return in the training and test environments, respectively. You can select the test environment used in evaluation with the `--eval_mode` argument, which accepts one of `(train, color_easy, color_hard, video_easy, video_hard, distracting_cs, none)`. Use `none` if you want to disable continual evaluation of generalization. Note that not all combinations of arguments have been tested. Feel free to open an issue or send a pull request if you encounter an issue or would like to add support for new features.


## Results

We provide test results for each of the SVEA, SODA, PAD, DrQ, RAD, and CURL methods. Results for `color_hard` and `video_easy` are shown below:

![soda table results](figures/results_table.png)

See [our paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.00644) for additional results.


## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank the numerous researchers and engineers involved in work of which this work is based on. This repository is a product of our work on [SVEA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.00644), [SODA](https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.13389) and [PAD](https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.04309). Our SAC implementation is based on [this repository](https://github.com/denisyarats/pytorch_sac_ae), the original DMControl is available [here](https://github.com/deepmind/dm_control), and the gym wrapper for it is available [here](https://github.com/denisyarats/dmc2gym). The [Distracting Control Suite](https://arxiv.org/abs/2101.02722) environments were adapted from [this](https://github.com/google-research/google-research/tree/master/distracting_control) implementation. PAD, RAD, CURL, and DrQ baselines are based on their official implementations provided [here](https://github.com/nicklashansen/policy-adaptation-during-deployment), [here](https://github.com/MishaLaskin/rad), [here](https://github.com/MishaLaskin/curl), and [here](https://github.com/denisyarats/drq), respectively.
